welcome to Sporting KC com it is the day
after MLS Cup and the half day trade
deadline has just completed and Sporting
Kansas City very active with today's
trades in here to discuss more as head
coach Peter Vermes Peter thanks for
taking some time sure there are some
players going for Sporting Kansas City
in one coming in and first off we'd like
to talk to you about the players that
are going aurelien collin and CJ Sapong
putting in numbers of years of service
were not going two new teams
Philadelphia Union in orlando city what
can you tell us about those moves from
an organizational and a head coach
perspective well obviously this year
presents a lot of different scenarios
that could take place first and foremost
you have the expansion draft you have I
would see addition on rally inside yet
the conclusion of his current contract
he was on and you also have the CBA
negotiations that are taking place as
well and so as much as you always like
to be very definitive in regards to
knowing what is coming down the road I
think it's a time of a lot of
speculation into in regards to what's
going to happen with whether it's a
protective protected list and the
expansion draft and then you also have a
CBA you know whenever you get to this
point in the season at the end you
always are now dealing with the business
side of the game which is a lot of stuff
to do surrounding the cap so in in most
regards you know we tried very hard to
get a deal on what done with Colin
unfortunately we're unable to do that so
it really became more of a cap casualty
and we needed to find a way to at least
maybe maximize some value and there was
a good chance that he may leave the
league as well but in
the in the decision that we made in the
tree that we made with Orlando he's now
staying in the league and we're able to
get some value so that we could use it
to hopefully enhance our team as the
years go forward in regards to CJ it's
more centered around the fact that it
was going to be very difficult to
protect him with our list and it was it
was easy for us to know that there was a
lot of interest in the player so it was
more of us maybe just taking advantage
of getting something in return maybe not
necessarily the mood that we wanted to
do but again with different mechanisms
that are happening right now it was a
decision that we felt we had to make and
also it is one of the I guess you could
say cruel parts of the business in terms
of CJ was a player that you guys drafted
Aurelien Collin was a guy that you
brought in in 2011 been here for a very
long time but this is part of the
business and but I imagine it's got to
be tough to see guys go that you have
been coaching on a daily basis and
groomed and improved over the passport
for plus size it is and it's guys that
have helped this club in so many
different perspectives whether it be to
create the culture and the ethos that we
currently have in the club and also the
success that we've had at the club as
well so yeah it's obviously very very
hard but in today's sports and I don't
think that soccer is immune to it
looking at football and baseball and
basketball where there's a salary-cap
involved these are the types of things
that happen especially with the way our
Lee works and the rules and
unfortunately you're I think you're
always in a in a building phase and you
can never think that it's finally over
and everything's done and we've
accomplished what we wanted to you're
constantly looking at what are the next
ways to improve your club and sometimes
you know you're you're maybe a little
forced into some of those situations
because as much as you'd like to keep
everybody every year players are going
to have different demands and when they
do sometimes you can't get meet them all
and it also was it wasn't all just
players being traded away Sporting
Kansas City also bringing in Bernardo
Anor in from the Columbus Crew what has
you excited about bringing him to this
roster here Sporting KC yeah I think
there's a couple things I think as as
much as barnardo's Venezuelan he's been
in our
in our league for quite some time now
and he understands the Lea understands a
system I think he's got some very good
qualities as a player that is has the
ability to play a couple different
positions you know very athletic
left-footed I think solid player so I
think it's a good addition for us where
I think Columbus nah no one speak for
them but I think they were probably in
the same world as well couldn't protect
everybody and it was an opportunity to
maybe get some value out of a player
that they they thought had some value
around the league and we thought that
and it's not just a player coming in
with the trade for the Philadelphia a
super draft pick coming also some
allocation money through various trades
how much of this offseason is
preparation for things like the
expansion draft which will not only
happen this year but it's going to be
happening for years to come so with the
accumulation of draft picks allocation
money is it more about how much is it
balancing this coming season but also
the next two three seasons going forward
well you have to be thinking long-term
and you have to be thinking about how
you continue to build your roster again
I wish I could sit here and tell you
what if I knew what the salary cap would
be for this upcoming year but again we
speculation on my part so we have to act
as status quo as possible currently and
we have to use all the mechanisms that
we currently have so it's it's it's
trying to understand that as much as we
can keep our core group together and at
the same time adding some pieces that
will enhance the team is it always going
to be an important aspect for us and it
can't just be looking today or tomorrow
but it's got to be looking 13 you know
five years down the road well P we know
it's been a very busy day for you and
will be a very weak very very busy week
in a very busy offseason thank you for
taking some time my pleasure
you